>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: One last thing I want
to talk about objects is storing data.
So as I mentioned briefly before,
we can store anything in our objects.
So here we have on, I guess, the second
line here, we're storing a string.
But we can also store an object.
And then we can also store functions.
When we store functions as a property and
an object we call it a method.
I'm not sure why we have to do that,
but that's what we do.
And yeah.
Any questions about that?
Sure?
>> Speaker 2: Can you say that again?
Elaborate.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: On?
So this slide is just showing that we can
store all kinds of any data in JavaScript.
So any data type.
So we have strings, we can store numbers,
you can store booleans,
you can store undefined, null.
You can also store functions and objects.
And when we store our function
as a property in an object,
we call that a method.
So if you hear the term
method thrown around and
function thrown around, just know that
they're the same thing pretty much,
except that a method is just a property
on an object that's a function.
That's the only difference.
But if you really think
about it in the browser,
everything's attached to
the window object, so
you could kind of say that everything's a
method, but maybe I'm taking that too far.
>> Speaker 2: So area here is the method?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah
area is the method.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: And
in the function part of your lecture,
are you gonna get into the whole.
When is the difference between a function
and the method and all that stuff or?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I mean yeah,
I'll talk about it,
I mean the difference between a function
and method is there's no difference.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Like as far as how you use them,
the only thing it's just
a vocab word really
that a method is a function
that's a property of an object.
So if you say like an array has a method.
That just means that the array has
a function like array.push, right.
And we put the two parentheses on
the side, that means that is a function.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
That's all, cool and then just, just
like some styles a lot of people say so
you can do bracket you can do dots,
when would you use one versus the other?
And it really really doesn't matter again,
at your job or if you're contributing to
open source, if they have a style guide
of course follow their guidelines.
For me, I always use dot notation unless
it's a variable or an odd character,
just simply because it's shorter
to type and it's just easier, so
in general, I just use dots unless I
need to do something with an expression,
like evaluate a variable or
something like that.
Cool.
All right.
So, just going back up to a slide.
So we have like two different ways
to look at the object, right.
We have this sort of a notation to the,
I don't know if that's left or
right, to the side.
And then we have this notation where
we're dynamically adding properties.
So this one right here is
called object literal notation,
and I'm gonna talk about how to
translate one from the other.
So first, again,
we're gonna start with how we had it.
We have this object literal that's empty.
And then we expand out that bracket.
And so now that we have
everything inside of our object,
we can lose the reference to box,
right cuz it's inside,
so we take off box,
we don't need the brackets either.
And then, we aren't assigning
anything we're just setting it.
So we just, we have some colons,
and then we added a comma,
and then we're gonna take out that
semi-colon and keep it at the end.
And so that's sort of
the walk-through on how to go from
dynamically adding properties and values
to an object, to object-literal notation.
Which you've probably
seen both of them by now.
And the important thing here
is that property names,
in this case, are always gonna be strings.
They're not gonna be expressions.
But you can put in
an expression as the value.
Cool.
Any questions about that?
Sort of the different syntax.
And also in this case,
we don't even need to have quotations.
Since it's going to be assumed that
size is a string, we don't need quotes.
However, if you're going to have something
with funny characters, like this, you're
going to need to keep those quotes around
there, cuz it'll confuse your interpreter.
Cool, and then we can still use our
dot bracket notation still the same,
even if we're using
object literal notations.
It's just a different way to writing it.
Cool, any questions?
I'm gonna wait for
just like one question, so
if someone could just ask me a question,
we can move on.
>> Speaker 2: Do, when teams are working,
they come to agreement on which
way to do things based on a style guide,
or how do you do that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, I mean,
there might be a style guide,
I don't know if it'll be as in-depth.
But as far as like when you should
use object rotation versus adding
properties dynamically, it kind of depends
on your data and how you're getting it.
So if your data's gonna change,
for example,
like after run time, it might make
sense to store in a variable.
And add it dynamically, especially if
the property names could be different.
So if it's gonna change after run time,
it would be you would probably wanna use
the bracket or dot notation, but
if it's something that's static and
it's just an object that you have and
that data doesn't change,
then you can just put in object
literal notation and call it a day.,